elasticsearch/README.md, before:

OPG elasticsearch docker image
==============================

Dockerfile Environment Variables
--------------------------------

### Software versions (used during build only)

```
* ELASTICSEARCH_VERSION             (version of Elasticsearch to install)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CURATOR_VERSION     (version of Curator to install)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS           (version of AWS cloud plugin to install)
* MARVEL_VERSION                    (version of Marvel plugin to install)
* LICENSE_VERSION                   (version of License plugin to install)
* WATCHER_VERSION                   (version of Watcher plugin to install)
```

### Elasticsearch Settings (used by confd during startup)

The following variables are used in the configuration of `elasticsearch.yml` during container startup and their
equivalent elasticsearch configuration variable is show alongside:

```
* ELASTICSEARCH_PATH_REPO                             (path.repo)
* ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS                    (index.number_of_replicas)
* ELASTICSEARCH_NETWORK_BIND_HOST                     (network.bind_host)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SCRIPT_DISABLE_DYNAMIC                (script.disable_dynamic)
* ELASTICSEARCH_PATH_DATA                             (path.data)
* ELASTICSEARCH_DISCOVERY_ZEN_PING_MULTICASE_ENABLED  (discovery.zen.ping.multicast.enabled)
* ELASTICSEARCH_DISCOVERY_ZEN_MINIMUM_MASTER_NODES    (discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NAME                          (cluster.name)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE                     (discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts)
* ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME                             (node.name)
* ELASTICSEARCH_INDICES_FIELDDATA_CACHE_SIZE          (indices.fielddata.cache.size)
* ELASTICSEARCH_GATEWAY_EXPECTED_NODES                (gateway.expected_nodes)
* ELASTICSEARCH_GATEWAY_RECOVER_AFTER_TIME            (gateway.recover_after_time)
* ELASTICSEARCH_GATEWAY_RECOVER_AFTER_NODES           (gateway.recover_after_nodes)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_REGION                      (cloud.aws.region)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_S3_PROTOCOL                 (cloud.aws.s3.protocol)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_ACCESS_KEY                  (cloud.aws.access_key)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_SECRET_KEY                  (cloud.aws.secret_key)
```

To allow AWS access/secret keys to be used (instead of IAM roles) for access to S3 storage for snapshots, the variables have been defined but left unset so that IAM is used in preference. Setting values for the key variables will override IAM and force the use of these keys when authenticating.

When using the `ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_` variable(s) the suffix after this name is arbitrary. Each variable starting with this
name will be used as a key in the template used to create the elasticsearch.yml configuration file to populate the list of nodes
in the cluster. For example:

```
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE elastic-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO elastic-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE elastic-03
```

will result in the elasticsearch.yml file containing:

```
discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts:
- elastic-01
- elastic-02
- elastic-03
````

If this is a single node cluster comment out the `ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_` variables as they are not required and will
automatically be left out of the configuration file (otherwise during startup it will generate transport.netty transport
layer exception messages from java).

### Elasticsearch Script Variables (used by scripts)

The following variables are used by scripts included in the container (stored in `/scripts/elasticsearch/`). See comments within the script for more details.

```
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_TYPE             (Snapshot repo type)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_NAME             (Snapshot repo name)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_S3_BUCKET        (S3 bucket for repo)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_S3_PATH          (Used to build path to repo in S3)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_FS_PATH          (Local directory for repo)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_RETAIN_DAYS                 (How many days to keep snapshots)
```

Sample docker-compose entries
-----------------------------

### Elasticsearch (single node, no replicas)

```
elasticsearch:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  ports:
    - 9200:9200
```

Start container with:

```
 # docker-compose -p opgcore -f <docker-compose-file> up -d elasticsearch
```

### Elasticsearch (three nodes, two replicas)

```
elasticsearch01:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  links:
    - elasticsearch02:elasticsearch-02
  ports:
    - 9201:9200
  env_file: ./env/es1.env

elasticsearch02:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  links:
    - elasticsearch03:elasticsearch-03
  ports:
    - 9202:9200
  env_file: ./env/es2.env

elasticsearch03:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  ports:
    - 9203:9200
  env_file: ./env/es3.env
```

Environment files

```
$ cat ./env/es1.env
ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS=2
ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE=elasticsearch-03

$ cat ./env/es2.env
ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS=2
ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE=elasticsearch-03

$ cat ./env/es3.env
ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS=2
ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME=elasticsearch-03
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE=elasticsearch-03
```

### Curator

```
elasticcurator:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  external_links:
    - opgcoredocker_elasticsearch_1:elasticsearch
```

Assuming a running elasticsearch container has been started as above, to run curator against it:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticcurator curator --host elasticsearch.......
```

### Snapshots

```
elasticsnapshot:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  external_links:
    - opgcoredocker_elasticsearch_1:elasticsearch
```

Assuming a running elasticsearch container has been started as above, to define a repository for snapshots called `my_snaps`:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticsnapshot \
 curl -XPUT "http://elasticsearch:9200/_snapshot/my_snaps" -d '{
    "type": "fs",
    "settings": {
       "location": "my_snaps"
    }
 }'
 ```

Curator
-------
Using the sample compose entries above and the example to run curator above -

To get help on the curator command:

` curator --help`

To list all current indices:

` curator --host elasticsearch show indices --all-indices`

To do a dry run housekeep of marvel indices older than 30 days:

` curator --dry-run --host elasticsearch delete indices --time-unit days --older-than 30 --timestring '%Y.%m.%d' --prefix '.marvel'`

To delete all indices on the master node only:

` curator --master-only --host elasticsearch delete indices --all-indices`

Snapshots
---------
There is a script included within the container called `/scripts/elasticsearch/snapshot_elastic.sh`, which will use variables defined in the Dockerfile to create a snapshot repository, take a snapshot of all indices and remove previous snapshots older than a certain number of days. The script also uses sensible defaults if those variables are not set.

Using the sample compose entries above, to take a snapshot to a repository called `mysnapshots` on an S3 bucket called `s3_snapshots` and remove copies older than 3 days:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_TYPE=s3 \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_S3_BUCKET=s3_snapshots \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_NAME=mysnapshots \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_RETAIN_DAYS=3 \
 elasticsnapshot /scripts/elasticsearch/snapshot_elastic.sh
```

For more information on configuring, taking, restoring from and deleting snapshots:

https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/modules-snapshots.html

To snapshot to AWS (S3) using the AWS Cloud Plugin:

https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-cloud-aws

Marvel
------

The URL for Marvel is `http://<elasticsearchhost>:9200/_plugin/marvel`

Commit message:

[SIRIUS] Update Elasticsearch README to include notes on snapshot restores

elasticsearch/README.md, after:

OPG elasticsearch docker image
==============================

Dockerfile Environment Variables
--------------------------------

### Software versions (used during build only)

```
* ELASTICSEARCH_VERSION             (version of Elasticsearch to install)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CURATOR_VERSION     (version of Curator to install)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS           (version of AWS cloud plugin to install)
* MARVEL_VERSION                    (version of Marvel plugin to install)
* LICENSE_VERSION                   (version of License plugin to install)
* WATCHER_VERSION                   (version of Watcher plugin to install)
```

### Elasticsearch Settings (used by confd during startup)

The following variables are used in the configuration of `elasticsearch.yml` during container startup and their
equivalent elasticsearch configuration variable is show alongside:

```
* ELASTICSEARCH_PATH_REPO                             (path.repo)
* ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS                    (index.number_of_replicas)
* ELASTICSEARCH_NETWORK_BIND_HOST                     (network.bind_host)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SCRIPT_DISABLE_DYNAMIC                (script.disable_dynamic)
* ELASTICSEARCH_PATH_DATA                             (path.data)
* ELASTICSEARCH_DISCOVERY_ZEN_PING_MULTICASE_ENABLED  (discovery.zen.ping.multicast.enabled)
* ELASTICSEARCH_DISCOVERY_ZEN_MINIMUM_MASTER_NODES    (discovery.zen.minimum_master_nodes)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NAME                          (cluster.name)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE                     (discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts)
* ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME                             (node.name)
* ELASTICSEARCH_INDICES_FIELDDATA_CACHE_SIZE          (indices.fielddata.cache.size)
* ELASTICSEARCH_GATEWAY_EXPECTED_NODES                (gateway.expected_nodes)
* ELASTICSEARCH_GATEWAY_RECOVER_AFTER_TIME            (gateway.recover_after_time)
* ELASTICSEARCH_GATEWAY_RECOVER_AFTER_NODES           (gateway.recover_after_nodes)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_REGION                      (cloud.aws.region)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_S3_PROTOCOL                 (cloud.aws.s3.protocol)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_ACCESS_KEY                  (cloud.aws.access_key)
* ELASTICSEARCH_CLOUD_AWS_SECRET_KEY                  (cloud.aws.secret_key)
```

To allow AWS access/secret keys to be used (instead of IAM roles) for access to S3 storage for snapshots, the variables have been defined but left unset so that IAM is used in preference. Setting values for the key variables will override IAM and force the use of these keys when authenticating.

When using the `ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_` variable(s) the suffix after this name is arbitrary. Each variable starting with this
name will be used as a key in the template used to create the elasticsearch.yml configuration file to populate the list of nodes
in the cluster. For example:

```
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE elastic-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO elastic-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE elastic-03
```

will result in the elasticsearch.yml file containing:

```
discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts:
- elastic-01
- elastic-02
- elastic-03
````

If this is a single node cluster comment out the `ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_` variables as they are not required and will
automatically be left out of the configuration file (otherwise during startup it will generate transport.netty transport
layer exception messages from java).

### Elasticsearch Script Variables (used by scripts)

The following variables are used by scripts included in the container (stored in `/scripts/elasticsearch/`). See comments within the script for more details.

```
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_TYPE             (Snapshot repo type)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_NAME             (Snapshot repo name)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_S3_BUCKET        (S3 bucket for repo)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_S3_PATH          (Used to build path to repo in S3)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_FS_PATH          (Local directory for repo)
* ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_RETAIN_DAYS                 (How many days to keep snapshots)
```

Sample docker-compose entries
-----------------------------

### Elasticsearch (single node, no replicas)

```
elasticsearch:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  ports:
    - 9200:9200
```

Start container with:

```
 # docker-compose -p opgcore -f <docker-compose-file> up -d elasticsearch
```

### Elasticsearch (three nodes, two replicas)

```
elasticsearch01:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  links:
    - elasticsearch02:elasticsearch-02
  ports:
    - 9201:9200
  env_file: ./env/es1.env

elasticsearch02:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  links:
    - elasticsearch03:elasticsearch-03
  ports:
    - 9202:9200
  env_file: ./env/es2.env

elasticsearch03:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  ports:
    - 9203:9200
  env_file: ./env/es3.env
```

Environment files

```
$ cat ./env/es1.env
ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS=2
ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE=elasticsearch-03

$ cat ./env/es2.env
ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS=2
ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE=elasticsearch-03

$ cat ./env/es3.env
ELASTICSEARCH_NUMBER_OF_REPLICAS=2
ELASTICSEARCH_NODE_NAME=elasticsearch-03
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_ONE=elasticsearch-01
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_TWO=elasticsearch-02
ELASTICSEARCH_CLUSTER_NODES_THREE=elasticsearch-03
```

### Curator

```
elasticcurator:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  external_links:
    - opgcoredocker_elasticsearch_1:elasticsearch
```

Assuming a running elasticsearch container has been started as above, to run curator against it:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticcurator curator --host elasticsearch.......
```

### Snapshots

```
elasticsnapshot:
  image: registry.service.dsd.io/opguk/elasticsearch:latest
  external_links:
    - opgcoredocker_elasticsearch_1:elasticsearch
```

Assuming a running elasticsearch container has been started as above, to define a repository for snapshots called `my_snaps`:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticsnapshot \
 curl -XPUT "http://elasticsearch:9200/_snapshot/my_snaps" -d '{
    "type": "fs",
    "settings": {
       "location": "my_snaps"
    }
 }'
 ```

Curator
-------
Using the sample compose entries above and the example to run curator above -

To get help on the curator command:

` curator --help`

To list all current indices:

` curator --host elasticsearch show indices --all-indices`

To do a dry run housekeep of marvel indices older than 30 days:

` curator --dry-run --host elasticsearch delete indices --time-unit days --older-than 30 --timestring '%Y.%m.%d' --prefix '.marvel'`

To delete all indices on the master node only:

` curator --master-only --host elasticsearch delete indices --all-indices`

Snapshots
---------

#### Taking Snapshots

There is a script included within the container called `/scripts/elasticsearch/snapshot_elastic.sh`, which will use variables defined in the Dockerfile to create a snapshot repository, take a snapshot of all indices and remove previous snapshots older than a certain number of days. The script also uses sensible defaults if those variables are not set.

Using the sample compose entries above, to take a snapshot to a repository called `mysnapshots` on an S3 bucket called `s3_snapshots` and remove copies older than 3 days:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_TYPE=s3 \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_S3_BUCKET=s3_snapshots \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_REPOSITORY_NAME=mysnapshots \
 -e ELASTICSEARCH_SNAPSHOTS_RETAIN_DAYS=3 \
 elasticsnapshot /scripts/elasticsearch/snapshot_elastic.sh
```

### Restoring Snapshots

To restore from a snapshot, the process that works best is to close all indices, restore from the snapshot, close them all again and then open them all. Open indices cannot be restored (hence closing all before restoring) and a second close is issued to ensure that any indices being written during the restore (e.g. Marvel) are closed before all are opened (else the process errors).

Assuming the use of the `elasticsnapshot` service used above to demonstrate snapshots, to restore from a snapshot called `snaptest` from a repository called `testrepo`:

```
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticsnapshot \
 curl -XPOST http://elasticsearch:9200/_all/_close?wait_for_completion=true?ignore_unavailable=true
 #
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticsnapshot \
 curl -XPOST curl -XPOST http://elasticsearch:9200/_snapshot/testrepo/snaptest/_restore?wait_for_completion=true?ignore_unavailable=true
 #
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticsnapshot \
 curl -XPOST http://elasticsearch:9200/_all/_close?wait_for_completion=true?ignore_unavailable=true
 #
 # docker-compose -f <docker-compose-file> run elasticsnapshot \
 curl -XPOST http://elasticsearch:9200/_all/_open?wait_for_completion=true?ignore_unavailable=true
 #
 ```

### More Information

For more information on configuring, taking, restoring from and deleting snapshots:

https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/modules-snapshots.html

To snapshot to AWS (S3) using the AWS Cloud Plugin:

https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-cloud-aws

Marvel
------

The URL for Marvel is `http://<elasticsearchhost>:9200/_plugin/marvel`
